Title: Analysis of interviews to uncover the effects of nurse prescribing on the doctor-nurse relationship
Year: 2018
Abstract: Objective: The introduction of nurse prescribing has had a profound effect on how patients obtain a prescription. Yet very little has been researched about the effects of nurse prescribing on the professional relationship between nurses and doctors since its introduction. It was this lack of enquiry that led to this research study to see if this relationship has changed since the introduction of the nurse prescriber. 
Design methods: A purposeful sample approach was chosen, interviews were undertaken using a semi-structured method and interpretative phenomenological analysis was used to analyse the data. 
Setting: A large teaching hospital in the north west of England. 
Subjects: Four nurse prescribers and four doctors working in orthopaedics, breast surgery or urology looking after adult elective surgery patients. 
Main outcomes: What emerged from this study is a complex pattern of readjustment within this relationship. The power once enjoyed by the medical profession is now challenged by the introduction of the nurse prescriber. A number of themes emerged around the topics of prescribing, relationship, educational and communication. Each help to focus how this change manifests itself in the relationship and how it needs to evolve if the maximum benefit from nurse prescribing is to be achieved. 
Conclusions: What has emerged from this research is how complex the relationship between the nurse prescriber and doctor really is. The power to prescribe medication that was once the sole preserve of the medical profession is now shared with the nurse prescriber. But this shared authority remains unequal; the medical profession remains at least unwilling to give up its position of control just yet, but the dialogue has begun.

Title: Is it time to re-examine the doctor-nurse relationship since the introduction of the independent nurse prescriber?
Year: 2017
Abstract: Objective: The aim of this paper is to stimulate a debate and discussion into how the nurse‑doctor relationship needs to change. 
Setting: The National Health Service, United Kingdom. 
Primary argument: The nurse‑doctor relationship needs to be re‑evaluated in light of the expanding role of nurses into areas that traditionally had been considered a doctor’s role. While the medical profession has been willing to relinquish some control to nurses in areas such as wound or incontinence care because these aspects do not threaten their authority, position or power. The issue of non‑medical prescribing remains for some in the medical profession a topic of concern. Despite non‑medical prescribing being discussed widely in the literature, very little has been mentioned about how the introduction of the nurse prescriber has impacted the professional relationship between the nurse and the doctor. 
Conclusion: The blurring of the roles between nurses and doctors requires a re‑evaluation of this relationship. As nurses take on more responsibility such as prescribing medication the old traditional view of this relationship is no‑longer viable, if we are to maximise patient health care in the 21st century.

Title: Pre-operative assessment of elective surgical patients.
Year: 2012
Abstract: Patients due to undergo elective surgery who are not considered to be medically fit, may have their operation postponed or even cancelled. Not only will this result in significant anxiety for the person, but it will also have financial implications for the hospital, in terms of lost theatre time. In an attempt to prevent postponing or cancelling scheduled surgery, pre-operative assessment is essential to ensure that the patient is physically and emotionally prepared. This article examines the main components of pre-operative assessment and how addressing any problems before surgery can help to improve post-operative outcomes for patients.

Title: Using targeted information to meet the needs of surgical patients.
Year: 2011
Abstract: Staying in hospital, particularly when undergoing surgical treatment, may be emotionally distressing. Patients may have to deal with separation from family and friends, disruption to routine as well as the possibility of an uncertain future. Anxiety may be related to anticipation of painful or life-changing investigations, or the effects of surgery on the individual's future family and social life. Therefore it is important that patients are given appropriate information to reassure them and enable informed decision making. This article outlines the importance of using targeted information to meet the needs of individual patients to reduce pre-operative anxiety.

Title: Simple skills save lives: airway management.
Year: 2011
Abstract: When a patient comes into hospital they expect to be entering a safe environment where health professionals are able to handle any and all emergencies (National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE), 2007). However, a recent analysis of serious patient events by the National Patient Safety Agency (2007) made for sober reading. The report identified three broad themes that have impacted on patients' safety in the hospital setting:

Title: Medullary sponge kidney: causes and treatments.
Year: 2010
Abstract: Medullary sponge kidney is a little known and little understood disease. A patient with a medullary sponge kidney may undergo decades of suffering in the form of infections and pain before any diagnosis is even made. When a diagnosis is made, it is more than likely to be an incidental finding from a test for another problem. However, on diagnosis there are a number of options available to treat this condition. These include non-invasive treatments such as drug therapy, diet or extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy, to invasive therapies such as percutaneous nephrolithotomy, ureteroscopy and more advanced surgery. The aim of this article is to highlight this little known condition, outline the effects, and discuss the treatment options available to patients.

Title: Measuring anxiety in surgical patients using a visual analogue scale.
Year: 2010
Abstract: Since the early days of surgery patients have been anxious about undergoing operations. This feeling remains common today despite advances in medicine and surgical techniques. Numerous studies have shown the effect anxiety has on the human body. It is the responsibility of healthcare professionals to ensure that any patient undergoing an elective surgical procedure is both physically and psychologically prepared. However, with increasing demands on the health service to be more efficient, little time is set aside to meet the psychological needs of the surgical patient. This article focuses on the use of a visual analogue scale to identify pre-operative anxiety in patients, so that healthcare practitioners can implement strategies to reduce anxiety and improve the person's overall experience.

Title: Airway management of an elective surgical patient.
Year: 2009
Abstract: Airway management is a skill that all healthcare professionals need to learn. This skill is used in two specific areas. First, in emergency situations such as cardiac arrest or respiratory arrest. Second, and the subject of this article, the postanaesthetic patient. This article explores not only the anatomy of the respiratory system but the different techniques and methods employed to manage a patient's airway. Airway management can be divided into three distinct phases. The first phase deals with the management of the airway while the patient undergoes an operation; this is managed by the anaesthetist. While the second phase deals with the patient's airway in the immediate recovery period, it usually occurs in a recover room and is managed by a recovery nurse. The third phase is when the patient returns to the ward, and for the first 24-48 hours after a general anaesthetic. It is only by recognizing the signs and symptoms of respiratory distress and initiating effective treatment that serious consequences can be avoided.

Title: Identifying and assessing anxiety in pre-operative patients.
Year: 2009
Abstract: Increasing demands for hospitals to be more efficient mean that patients attending for an operation are generally admitted on the day of surgery. As a result, healthcare professionals have little time to talk to the patient to ascertain his or her wellbeing, to check for any signs of anxiety and ask whether the patient requires further information about the forthcoming procedure. Healthcare professionals should be encouraged to use appropriate interventions to identify and assess anxious patients. There are several instruments available to measure the patient's level of pre-operative anxiety. This article reviews the Amsterdam Preoperative Anxiety and Information Scale, which is easy for patients to complete and may help to identify which individuals need extra support.

Title: Managing anxiety in the elective surgical patient.
Year: 2009
Abstract: Patients coming into hospital can suffer a great deal of anxiety--Mathews et al (1981) suggested patients who undergo surgery experience acute psychological distress in the pre-operative period. These fears manifest themselves as uncertainty, loss of control and decreased self-esteem, anticipation of postoperative pain, and fear of separation from family (Egan et al, 1992; Asilioglu and Celik, 2004). As technical advances and improved anaesthetic techniques become available to the NHS, the ability to offer day surgery to a wider patient population is increasing. In fact Bernier et al (2003) and Elliott et al (2003) have suggested that 60% of future operations will be day procedures. This means as health-care professionals, nurses will have shorter time available not only to identify patients who may be experiencing anxiety, but also to offer them the support they need to cope with the surgery. Anxiety can have a profound effect on patients--it affects them in a variety of ways, from ignoring the illness, which could have a serious impact on the patient's life, to the constant demand for attention which can take the nurse away from the care of other patients on the ward (Thomas et al, 1995). Recently, there has been increasing interest in the possible influences of properative anxiety on the course and outcome of surgical procedures and the potential benefits of anxiety-reducing interventions (Markland et al, 1993). Caumo et al (2001) suggested that pre-operative management of a patients anxiety would be improved if health-care professionals had more knowledge about the potential predictors of pre-operative anxiety.

Title: Identifying and assessing anxiety in pre-operative patients.
Year: 2009
Abstract: Increasing demands for hospitals to be more efficient mean that patients attending for an operation are generally admitted on the day of surgery. As a result, healthcare professionals have little time to talk to the patient to ascertain his or her wellbeing, to check for any signs of anxiety and ask whether the patient requires further information about the forthcoming procedure. Healthcare professionals should be encouraged to use appropriate interventions to identify and assess anxious patients. There are several instruments available to measure the patient's level of pre-operative anxiety. This article reviews the Amsterdam Preoperative Anxiety and Information Scale, which is easy for patients to complete and may help to identify which individuals need extra support.

Title: Making effective clinical decisions: a framework for nurse practitioners.
Year: 2006
Abstract: Much has been written and researched about the decision-making process. Many agree it is one of the most difficult processes a health professional has to undertake. It is also one of the most important parts of nursing practice. There is increasing evidence that formal decision techniques applied sensibly can improve decision-making (Aitkin, 2003). Nurse practitioners must strive to find ways to improve and enhance their decision-making abilities. This article explores one such framework for decision-making that can be used by both novice and experienced nurses.

Title: Observation of children in a psychiatric inpatient unit. Design of behavioural rating scale for nursing staff.
Year: 1963
Abstract: Attention is drawn to the relative lack of methods of measuring behavioural disturbance in children, in contrast to their widespread use in adult psychiatry.

Reasons are given for encouraging the use of such measurement in child psychiatry.

The design of a behavioural rating scale for use by nursing staff in an in-patient unit is described, together with an investigation of its reliability.

It is concluded that, although there may be considerable short-term fluctuations in some aspects of a child's behaviour, it is possible to arrive at a reliable rating on the basis of four consecutive weekly assessments.

Title: Homosexuality and genetic sex.
Year: 1962
Abstract: The evidence for and against Lang's hypothesis that some male homosexuals are genetically female has been reviewed.

Studies of the sibling sex ratio of homosexuals have generally supported the hypothesis but provide only indirect evidence.

Investigation of the intersexes, Klinefelter's and Turner's syndromes, has been shown to be irrelevant to this problem, but evidence from studies of other developmental sex anomalies does not support the hypothesis.

The nuclear sex of homosexuals has always proved to be consistent with the phenotypic sex and this is convincing evidence against Lang's hypothesis.

An investigation of the somatic chromosomes in a small group of sixmale homosexuals is described. The results confirmed the sex chromosome constitution as male in each case, providing further direct evidence in line with the findings of nuclear sex.

It is therefore concluded that Lang's hypothesis can no longer be regarded as tenable.